[Music]
welcome to cinema summary ladies and
gentlemen and today we'll be looking at
Eli a movie about a very sickly boy
getting cured except not everything is
as it seems
ain't just so you know I'll be going
through the story of the film first
before explaining and clarifying a few
things so put on your hazmat suits and
take your medication because this is the
story of Eli 2019 Eli Miller is the son
of Christians rose and Paul Miller and
he's a very sickly boy with a really bad
autoimmune disease that will burn his
skin off if it takes off his hazmat suit
if this condition has cost the Millers a
lot of money and they are currently on
their way to get light treated by dr.
horn and immunologist who's seen plenty
of patients like Eli and seems to be
trusted by pollen rows mind you Eli's
going to be treated inside this big
spooky house where he can thankfully
take off his hats my suit in peace but
he's a little skeptical of dr. horn and
tries to get used to the spooky house
where he will be sleeping separate from
his parents however things become spooky
as the night he arrives
Eli is visited by a ghost which blows on
his window although it could just be an
hallucination at least according to dr.
horn who gives him his first treatment
this viral gene therapy that will cure
his malfunctioning genes over the course
of three treatments though it's as he's
in the operating room that thinks feel
off like this nurse who takes his photo
subtly or this ghost child that he sees
in the reflection of a chair and after
waking up from the anesthesia he hears
someone throwing rocks at his window and
sees that it's a girl who he goes down
to meet in this living room meet Haley
an energetic sort of weird quirky but
certainly friendly redhead who much like
Eli is into magic tricks in sleight of
hand
able to set things on fire with her mind
at least according to her but more than
that she's also rather important as she
tells in light of the house he's in is
weird in that dr. Horne doesn't seem to
like her a lot from here on out there is
a very clear supernatural presence
throughout the house that much like any
horror film on his only witnessed by
singular person in this case it's Eli
who is harassed by the spirits of
children in no matter how much Eli
insists that he's haunted by ghosts his
parents don't believe him neither does
dr. Horne who's insistent that it's just
the medication that's causing Eli to
hallucinate
it's rather suspicious and it's also a
lie since another ghost al-rai tells Eli
by writing on glass about said why or at
least about a lie this only gets more
suspicious as after the second treatment
Eli begins to feel worse and look worse
which only gets worse as yet another
ghost comes and harasses him this time
carving the words wide again and again
on the surface of Eli's closet which
Eli's parents and dr. Horne think was
his fault and when Eli again tries to
explain that it was the ghosts dr. Horne
tells Eli that none of her other
patients ever experienced paranormal
activity or saw any ghosts but that
night Eli talks to Haley once more who
talks about a previous patient by the
name of Perry who was being treated much
like Elias and who said that he had seen
ghosts and who Haley never saw again
after he got his third treatment and
it's after this Eli gets dragged through
the decontamination chamber by the
ghosts it gets found by dr. Horne who
Eli calls a liar
and mentions knowing about Perry much to
dr. horns horror before blacking out and
waking up at his bed where his mom gives
him some diazepam at a pep talk though
during this talk he realizes the ghostly
children were trying to tell me code a
password to something
three-one-seven the word lie upside down
in that night he goes to the medical
wing using three-one-seven as the access
code and finds files of the previous
kids Perry Agnes and Lucius and
discovers that they died due to dr.
horns treatments meanwhile Rose and Paul
get into a fight of each other about dr.
horns methods and her actually
lackluster success rate in curing kids
Andros decides then and there to leave
waking up dr. Horne who goes to check on
them at the same time
Eli nuts over a glass causing a nurse to
investigate the disturbance so after
going upstairs finding his parents
missing he gets injected with something
by his dad and the nurses drag him down
to the medical wing though he manages to
break out and go back to the medical
wing and tries to show his parents the
files but they're gone and after running
away he finds himself in dr. horns room
where there's a photo of her and the
nurses dressed as nuns and that's when a
dragonfly appears and guides Eli to a
secret chamber to this sacrificial altar
place thingy along of a crucifix and a
sealed well but it's here that he gets
locked in by dr. Horne his parents who
decide he needs to be treated but Eli's
condition acts up and he blacks out
before waking up again and he's fine he
can breathe his parents lied to him
about his condition but why and he
shouts and screams that his parents
asking them why and his mom hears this
and goes down to investigate only to
find Eli is silent he's dead so she
rushes an only to get blindsided by Eli
who swings a crucifix at her and runs to
the living room where he sees Haley and
tries to break out but gets caught by
the nurses who dragged him to the uart
at the same time that Rosa wakes up and
opens up the sealed well to find the
bodies of the other patients wrapped up
and clearly dead then a lot of things
happen in the finale the parents allow
dr. horn to do her
which is actually in exorcism ritual
that involves trying to cast out the
spirit of the devil out of Eli which
goes terribly terribly wrong and after
using his dark powers
Eli breaks out of his restraints and
uses his powers on the nurses before
interrogating his mom about what exactly
he is and she reveals that his dad is
real dad
was the devil who Goddard pregnant after
she prayed to him and that Eli never had
an autoimmune disease that was all just
a lie and the film ends of Eli fully
embracing his demonic heritage and
leaving only to run into Haley who
reveals that she's liked him
a half-double child who was keeping an
eye on him and who decides to take him
to meet his dad and together along with
Eli's mom they pile into a car and drive
off leaving the creepy mansion aflame
okay so they explain a lot of what
exactly is going on at the end of the
film inside the film but in case things
are happening too fast
Eli is the son of the devil El Diablo
the Big D himself the adversary aka the
devil and rose his biological mother
prayed to be a child to God who didn't
answer her priors but the devil did and
this explains why pollen rows have such
a strained relationship throughout the
film and furthermore Els condition his
autoimmune disease was BS it was a big
lie propagated by his parents in order
to keep his demonic heritage hidden and
of course protect other people from the
threat that he posed since as we see a
theme of the film demon children are
very powerful even if they're half demon
and it seems that in moments of extreme
emotional distress his demonic heritage
awakens which leads to his skin
condition although that is also due to
the injections of holy water that he's
exposed to in the treatments now moving
on to the treatments its outright stated
that these were injections of holy water
which leads to him burning rather
literally due to his demonic nature
along be medicated with treatments of
Tannis root which according to my
research is like a magical ingredient
used in magical rituals and
in fact I think this might be a
reference to Rosemary's Baby another
film that has a very similar plot line
that also makes reference to Tannis root
so if each treatment of holy water in
different places it seems that it
unfortunately has a fatal effects on
half demonic children which led to them
dying and potentially getting absolved
but dr. Horne and her nurses / nuns who
conduct the exorcism and keep their
bodies trapped beneath the house and
those seals which presumably also traps
the souls all these children to the
house do to say physical connection with
their soul and their body and speaking
of the children Lucius Agnes and Perry
are as mentioned before children will be
Big D and something interesting to note
is that the names Lucius and Agnes as
well as Eli have some association with
Christianity with Lucius coming from the
Latin word Luke's meaning light the same
root word as Lucifer a name that refers
to the devil and Agnes is associated
with lambs due to st. Agnes as a
martyrdom way back when furthermore
Eli's name is Hebrew in origin and could
be a direct reference to the high priest
Eli from the book of Samuel although it
could also be associated with Elijah and
Elijah although this could be
coincidental since I couldn't find
anything about Perry's name being
associated with any Christian things and
finally throughout the film we see
dragonflies flutter around the estate
and usually act as a guide for you'll I
which I believe could be a reference the
bill Zebub
the Lord of the Flies one of these seven
demon princes of hell and is another
name for the devil and I believe through
these dragonflies the devil sort of
helps out his children to help them
survive against the exorcism that dr.
Horne and her nurses conduct although
none were as strong as Eli whose demonic
powers are implied to have grown since
he's entering adolescence which accorded
dr. Horne was when the demons powers
typically manifest although an
alternative interpretation of the dragon
flies could be that these are actually
the souls of the children projecting
themselves as dragonflies
food-for-thought and by the end of the
film we find out that Haley is like Eli
a child of the devil and a human woman
and who according to her was unable to
help out Eli with his trial and
tribulation since
prefers to see if his children can help
themselves out which i think is probably
due to the devil needing capable and
self-sufficient hairs to usher in the
end of days but that's just what I think
and with that being said thank you so
much for watching ladies and gentlemen
if you enjoy the video leave a like down
below and subscribe to get updated on my
latest uploads now if you'll excuse me I
need to go visit my priest just in case
[Music]